[Ragnar]
Previously onVikings...
There is
so little food.
So little water.
That boy is just
the first of many.
I'm married
to a witch.
And the woman
that I loved is dead.
I think ruling Kattegat
will be boring.
You are unpredictable.
-Anger is a gift!
-[straining]
What is in here
is a gift!
Be ruthless.
We should never
have left Kattegat!
The gods have
decided our fate.
He no longer believes.
Do you, Ubbe?
-Ubbe, no!
Stop it!
-[yelling]
There's still something
left for us to do.
Together. This is it.
Wessex remains the last
great kingdom of England.
The Christian plague has
spread across the world!
But you still claim
to be Vikings.
Then act like Vikings!
Come with me,
and conquer King Alfred.
[all chanting]
Hail Ivar! Hail Ivar!
[yelling]
["If I Had A Heart" playing]
Do you
trust them?
The Lothbroks?
Of course, I do not
trust them.
They lie
about everything.
But you're willing to
go to war with them.
Of course. We understand
each other. I also lie.
That's the way we proceed
and it seems to work.
[Ingrid] Lying doesn't
always work with me.
-Hello.
-My Lord.
[Ingrid] Perhaps Ivar
has no intention
of coming back.
Perhaps.
And you also?
[Erik] We are
making good your fleet.
[sighs] This place
always reminds me
of the...
The great
ship-builder Floki.
Floki?
Don't tell me you have
never heard of him.
The famous
Ragnar Lothbrok
sailed to England,
and then Frankia,
then to Valhalla
on Floki's ships.
[Erik] Did you know him?
Of course, I knew him.
Who didn't know him?
Gone now.
Perhaps all
the best ones
are gone.
Floki used to say
that his ships
never butted against
the waves like a goat,
But moved through them,
like a ripple.
I hope our craftsmen
are as skillful as he was.
Good work.
I need to
speak with you.
I think it is
still possible
that the Rus
will return, and...
attack Kattegat again.
In which case,
I need to leave
someone in charge here
who I can trust
to defend the town
and look after
my interests.
[sighs]
This is your home.
You belong to Kattegat.
You no longer have to
risk anything,
fear anything.
So...
[sighs]
I have decided to leave you
in charge of Kattegat.
Officially, you and Ingrid
will rule in my absence.
In reality, I've decided
to appoint you
as temporary ruler.
If you and Ingrid disagree,
you will have the last say.
[Erik] Thank you.
Why are you doing this?
Things are coming
to a conclusion.
One has to
make decisions.
What do you mean
"coming to a conclusion"?
I'm not entirely sure...
But I can feel it
in my bones.
What have you two
been talking about?
The future!
I'm going away.
And you will
have to remain here,
to give birth to...
our child.
I've ordered
that you and Erik
should be joint rulers
in my absence.
I can rule.
Erik can organize
the defenses.
[Harald] You will be
joint rulers.
That is my decision.
I'm sure you two
will come to some...
accommodation.
Why leave
your land so soon?
I'm Viking.
I'm not one
for settling,
for staying.
I need to
travel onward.
And one day,
I'm sure,
we will all
be settled.
But, in the meantime...
I will still
repair my ships...
and sharpen my ax
and go to sea.
I like to feel
the sharp wind
and the salt
spraying on my face.
And when I feel that...
I'm free.
[groaning]
[horn blowing]
[overlapping shouting]
May the gods
be with you.
-[Viking] Take it
on the other side!
-[people chattering]
[Viking in native tongue]
Now onward!
[indistinct shouting]
I never had any luck
with women.
[Viking] Keep your eyes open!
[Viking 2] Argh!
Bring more rope!
[choir singing]
[Bishop]
We thank God
in his mercy,
that he has
protected Wessex
for so long
from the depredations
of the Vikings and the pagans.
Wessex gives thanks
to our gracious King Alfred,
and to the providence
of our Lord Jesus Christ.
We pray to almighty God
to give us the strength
to repel and slaughter
the heathen,
should he ever return to
these blessed Christian lands.
God save the King!
[congregation]
[Bishop]
God save Wessex!
[congregation]
[Bishop] And now,
let us say the prayer,
which Jesus taught
to his disciples.
[speaking Latin]
[all] Amen.
Amen.
[Harald] I don't think
we should attack
the Royal Villa.
The Saxons must have
increased its fortifications
and defenses.
I agree.
We must flush the King
out of his stronghold,
force him to fight us at
a place of our choosing.
Which would be?
Here.
Edington.
I remember it.
Ragnar carried me
up the steep hill
beyond the town
to the ramparts
of an ancient fort.
Looking down
the valley below,
he said,
"This is a perfect place
for a battle."
-[indistinct chatter]
-[hammering]
[sighs]
[Hvitserk]
What are you thinking?
I was thinking,
"I hope he doesn't drown."
[rooster crowing]
[gasps]
What do you want?
To take my place in your bed.
Nothing has been decided.
Harald is gone.
Likely never to return.
And you never loved him.
-That doesn't mean--
-Yes, it does.
I am the king-maker.
I saved Bjorn's life,
I saved Harald's life,
and now,
I make myself king.
And you will be my queen.
Are you sure you really
want to marry a witch?
Yes. I think
it would be very exciting.
Take off your shirt.
[chuckles]
Now turn around.
-[Ingrid grunts]
-[Erik gasps]
I want to see the marks.
[Erik gasping]
[Ingrid grunts]
[both grunting]
[breathing heavily]
[grunting]
Come to bed, my king-maker.
[indistinct chatter]
[captain] A rider, my Lord.
[breathing heavily]
My Lord King,
I bring most urgent news.
A new Viking army
is approaching Wessex.
With at least 200 boats.
Do we know who
these Vikings are?
So it is said, my Lord King,
they are Norwegians,
the sons of Ragnar Lothbrok.
[indistinct chatter]
[Harald] I think
we have reached here.
So far we haven't encountered
the Saxons, but from now on,
we will have to pass
their villages and towns.
And we don't want to risk any
large, unexpected encounter.
I have no doubt
they know we're upon the river.
That's why we should stop
trying to be invisible.
On the contrary, we should
announce our presence,
start spreading terror
among the local population.
Hvitserk and I will take
a party out tomorrow.
Hopefully, we can steal
some horses,
and find out if Alfred
is mustering an army.
[indistinct chatter]
Our scouts tell us
that the Viking army
is encamped about here.
It's possible that
they have plans to meet
with Viking settlements
or war bands along
the Mercian border
or elsewhere.
They may wish to increase
the size of their
already considerable force.
Their army is far too big
to ignore,
but we should try to engage it
on our terms.
We should monitor
their movement...
but at the same time,
prepare our own forces
to move here to Chichester.
We have a large garrison there.
We have access to the sea.
So we must evacuate here?
Yes. [clears throat]
Although it pains me
more than I can say.
What kind of message
does it send out
to the rest of Wessex
that the King
is abandoning his Royal Villa?
I suppose it sends a message
of comparative weakness.
And, unfortunately,
we are weak.
We are surrounded by enemies
and now we face
another great Viking army.
One should never
be afraid of the truth,
my sweet Elsewith.
What difference would it make
if I lied about our strength?
Far better to be honest.
To trust in the Lord,
and be practical.
These lessons I have learned.
I can't bear it!
I can't bear the fact that
it's the same Vikings
that killed your grandfather
and your father!
And now here they are again.
They will never go away.
They must always win!
Even when they are defeated,
they win!
What do you mean?
Well, whenever
they are defeated in battle,
the Vikings always offer
to make a deal.
They swear on their arm-rings,
or they even agree
to conversion as Christians,
just so that
they can make the deal!
An exchange of hostages.
Some land for peace.
Whatever it is,
I've seen it again and again.
And it's often your fault.
You've been so keen on peace,
you've rushed in
and agreed to their terms!
But, for the most part,
they don't mean it.
They don't really convert.
They don't care if the hostages
they provide have to die
for a broken promise.
[sighs]
Basically, they don't care.
And you, my love,
have always been
their victim...
and I fear the same thing
will happen again.
[sighs]
[exhales]
[grunts]
[gasps]
[gasping]
[Ingrid] I drive it
into the eye of Vigfadir.
I drive it
into the eye of Valfaoir.
into the eye of Asathor.
Thor and Odin,
hear my prayer,
and heed my commands
and bless this stave.
Thekkr. Fjolnir. Thundr. Freyr.
Thrumr. Fengr.
Yes! Do your work.
[Ivar] Whoa.
You take the right track.
You, take the reins.
[grunts]
[horses snorting]
[church bell tolling]
[Alfred] In Thee, O Lord,
do I put my trust.
Let me never be
put to confusion.
O God, be not far from me.
O my God,
make haste for my help,
incline Thine ear unto me,
and save me.
Hear my prayer, O Lord,
and let my cry come unto Thee.
For my days
are like a shadow
that declineth.
But Thou, O Lord,
shall endure forever.
Thou shalt arise,
and have mercy upon Wessex.
The time to favor her,
yea, the time set, is come.
[indistinct chatter]
[Alfred] So the heathen
shall fear the name
of the Lord,
and all of the Kings
of the earth Thy glory.
Charge!
[soldiers shouting]
Shield wall! Shield wall!
Archers!
[Wiglaf] Charge! Charge!
[Ivar] Brace! Brace!
Loose!
Break them!
Take him down!
Archers, left! And right!
[all shouting]
For Odin! Ivar!
[groans]
[shouts]
[exhales]
[all grunting]
[screaming]
Circle in! Circle!
Flanks out! Out!
Hold it! Hold it!
Now! Close in!
Close in!
[grunting]
[Ivar] Fight!
Take him down!
[Hvitserk] Ivar!
[grunts]
[soldiers shouting]
[groaning]
[grunts]
[groans]
[grunting]
[panting]
[shouts]
[groaning]
[groans]
[captain] Retreat!
Fall back!
[overlapping shouting]
[all cheering]
[grunts]
[Viking 1] Yes!
You're still alive, huh?
As you can see.
-What took you so long?
-[laughing]
[panting]
[erratic breathing]
[groaning]
[ragged breathing]
[erratic breathing]
[baby gurgling]
[groaning]
[horses neighing]
[crackling]
[Saxon 1] Godspeed, sir!
May God be with you!
Wessex is with you!
[horse whinnying]
-[Saxon soldier 1] Good boy.
-[Saxon soldier 2]
Thank you, Brother.
[Saxon soldier 3]
I'll let the horses rest.
[Saxon soldier 4] Over here!
Take the horses to the front.
[Saxon soldier 1]
No, leave it there!
[indistinct chatter]
I hope you are
proud of yourself.
"Proud"?
In what way?
Leaving the ancestral home
of the Kings of Wessex,
without even a fight.
Elsewith,
they are just buildings.
It is just a place.
Surely you understand
that the spiritual home
of our people
is vested
not in a place,
but in a person.
It is only important
that Ivar does not
capture me...
for I am Wessex.
-[Saxon soldier 1] Quickly!
-[Saxon soldier 2]
All men on lookout!
-How are you feeling?
-[Erik] Good.
Mmm.
[footsteps approaching]
What is it?
I commissioned
this cloak for you.
Like it?
Yes.
[exhales]
[groans]
I just want to make you happy.
And why would I not be happy?
I rule Kattegat.
And, more than that,
I have you.
Life is perfect.
[sighs]
[Ivar] What did I tell you?
Is this not perfect?
King Alfred will be bound
to venture out to raise an army
and to visit his strongholds
in the south.
But wherever he goes...
we'll see him.
We should position scouts
on tops of all those
surrounding hills
to warn of his approach.
And apart from that,
we just wait.
[Erik shouting indistinctly]
[groaning]
What is it? Erik!
It's my eye!
Show me.
I can't see!
[continues groaning]
-What's happened to you?
-I don't know! I don't know!
[gasping]
I'm half blind!
I drive it
into the eye of Valfaoir.
Yes!
[groans]
[pants]
[indistinct shouting]
-[Viking 1] Can you see them?
-[Viking 2]
Keep your eyes open!
Just think, very soon,
all of this will be all ours.
Everything
as far as the eye can see.
All ours, my dear brother.
And Harald's, huh?
Nah.
It seems to me that
King Harald's days
are probably numbered.
Wouldn't you agree?
[scoffs]
[Erik groaning]
No! No!
[gasping]
[screaming]
[servant woman]
What happened to him?
[panting]
[whispering]
No, no...
[gasping and sobbing]
[growls]
[grunting]
[gasping]
Erik.
What is it?
[Erik gasping]
I'm blind.
[panting]
[oar continues tapping]
Look!
-Torvi!
-What?
-Look!
[Torvi grunts]
I can't see.
Can't you see? Look!
Don't scare me, Ubbe.
I can't see anything.
You must be blind.
[all sobbing]
We made it.
-[Othere weeping]
-You were right.
Everything that you said
was true.
And I should have believed you.
Everybody should
have believed you.
Forgive me.
[voice breaks]
Please forgive me.
You don't need forgiveness,
Ubbe, son of Ragnar.
Because I know,
deep inside,
you always believed.
And that is why we are here.
That is why we are here!
[laughs]
[music playing]